# Introduction

The 0xcert protocol offers ​tools for building powerful dapps​, aimed at easy authentication and management of digital or real-world tangible assets (such as ID, educational certificate, in-game item or a house) on the blockchain. ​In addition to common functions for transferring and managing assets and currency, the 0xcert framework provides ​another layer of conventions for creating certified non-fungible tokens for unique assets​. Xcerts represent opinionated non-fungible tokens, which also hold an imprint of an asset. With 0xcert protocol, we can validate a proof of existence, authenticity and ownership of these digital assets without third-party involvement.

0xcert is a framework with a set of on-chain and off-chain rules for managing assets and currenties. Our mission is to equip application developers with a secure agnostic framework for building modern  decentralized applications. 0xcert is a pluggable settlement with an advanced integration layer for different dapps and relay applications. This enables developers to focus on the application layer and quickly build applications for issuing university certificates, KYC applications, applications for loyalty programs, warranties, badges, credits or even a decentralized non-fungible exchange.

Due to the complexity of low-level blockchain solutions, the wide adoption of non-fungible tokes and blockchain in general is slower than it could be. The lack of conventions prevents interoperability among applications. Developers trying to develop their own decentralised application using non-fungible tokens face long development time and huge risk in their development process and security, lowering the overall efficiency and adoption rate. The resulting ecosystem of digital assets is under risk of being fragmented, with non-interoperable dapps and underlying data. One of the major problems in the future may not be the technological barrier to issuing ownership rights of different unique assets on the blockchain, but rather the authenticity of issuing entities. Currently there is no mechanism to attest credible NFT issuers.

The vision of 0xcert is to provide an ​open protocol for standardized and certified non-fungible tokens to a wider tech audience​. With 0xcert, you can build on top of the non-fungible token standard, employing a ​complete toolset, development framework, and a set of conventions for various use cases​. This results in shorter development time, lower risk and cuts cost associated with developing blockchain solutions. A wide range of decentralized applications and business models can be supported, giving companies the power to fully utilize the potential of blockchain technology. 0xcert is an open source protocol that translates one-of-a-kind digital or real-world assets into non-fungible tokens (NFTs) - unique proof of ownership available from the blockchain.
